README.md, before:

JSON-RPC 2.0 Client for HTTP and WebSocket backends
===================================================

This plugin requires jquery.json.js to be available, or at least the methods $.toJSON and
$.parseJSON.

The plan is to make use of websockets if they are available, but work just as well with only
http if not.

Usage example:

```Javascript
var foo = new $.JsonRpcClient({ ajaxUrl: '/backend/jsonrpc' });
foo.call(
  'bar', [ 'A parameter', 'B parameter' ],
  function(result) { alert('Foo bar answered: ' + result.my_answer); },
  function(error)  { console.log('There was an error', error); }
);
```

Batch calls
-----------

In HTTP you can batch calls with the batch-method.  You get a batch handler to make all call- and
notify-requests on, and they will all be sent in a single request.  When a WebSocket backend is
available, the requests will be sent immediately.

Example:

```Javascript
var foo = new $.JsonRpcClient({ ajaxUrl: '/backend/jsonrpc' });
foo.batch(
  function(batch) {
    batch.call('bar', [ 'A parameter', 'B parameter' ], success_cb1, error_cb1);
    batch.call('baz', { parameters: 'could be object' }, success_cb2, error_cb2);
  },
  function(all_result_array) { alert('All done.'); },
  function(error_data)       { alert('Error in batch response.'); }
);
```
Each result will be paired with it's own callback.  The all_done_callback given first to batch is
called when all other callbacks are done.


WebSocket
---------

If a websocket backend is given, it will be used if the browser supports it:

```Javascript
var foo = new $.JsonRpcClient({ ajaxUrl: '/backend/jsonrpc', socketUrl: 'ws://example.com/' });
foo.call('bar', [ 'param' ], success_cb, error_cb);
--> websocket message: {"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"bar","params":["param"],"id":3}
```

The http fallback will be used when the browser is not WebSocket capable, but NOT when the
websocket fails to connect.


### WebSocket other message handler

If a non-response message comes in, it can be forwarded to an external handler by giving the
onmessage-option.


### Using an already alive websocket - getSocket option

If you already have a websocket active and want that to be used for the JSON-RPC requests, you can
use the getSocket option.  getSocket should point to a function with the following interface:
```
@param onmessage_cb  getSocket will be called with an onmessage_cb that must be bound to the
                     onmessage event of the returned socket.

@return websocket|null  The returned object should act like a WebSocket: it must have the
                        property readyState, with a value of less than or equal to 1.  If less
                        than 1, it must have an onopen-property that can be set, and that will
                        be called when the socket is ready.  Also, it must be have the function
                        'call', taking a string.
                        It could also return null if no socket is available.
```

The main purpose of this is to couple the client with a matching server, that can take requests
from the backend.


Test
----

We use [Karma](http://karma-runner.github.io) to run the tests. 
To run the tests you need nodejs installed

To install Karma and it's dependencies (we use mocha,sinon and chai as test frameworks, and phantomjs to run the tests)
```bash
$ sudo npm install -g karma
$ sudo npm install -g phantomjs
$ cd jquery.jsonrpclient.js/
$ npm install
```

Start karma, it will automaticaly run the tests and then watch for changes and rerun on each change.
```bash
$ karma start tests/unit.conf.js
```


JSON-RPC 2.0
------------

JSON-RPC 2.0 is a very simple protocol for remote procedure calls, agnostic of carrier (http,
websocket, tcp, whatever…).

[JSON-RPC 2.0 Specification](http://www.jsonrpc.org/specification)

Commit message:

js-test-driver setup with mocha+chai+sinon
Choose between Karma and JsTestDriver as runner.
One test mysteriously failes on JsTestRunner and is skipped for now.

README.md, after:

JSON-RPC 2.0 Client for HTTP and WebSocket backends
===================================================

This plugin requires jquery.json.js to be available, or at least the methods $.toJSON and
$.parseJSON.

The plan is to make use of websockets if they are available, but work just as well with only
http if not.

Usage example:

```Javascript
var foo = new $.JsonRpcClient({ ajaxUrl: '/backend/jsonrpc' });
foo.call(
  'bar', [ 'A parameter', 'B parameter' ],
  function(result) { alert('Foo bar answered: ' + result.my_answer); },
  function(error)  { console.log('There was an error', error); }
);
```

Batch calls
-----------

In HTTP you can batch calls with the batch-method.  You get a batch handler to make all call- and
notify-requests on, and they will all be sent in a single request.  When a WebSocket backend is
available, the requests will be sent immediately.

Example:

```Javascript
var foo = new $.JsonRpcClient({ ajaxUrl: '/backend/jsonrpc' });
foo.batch(
  function(batch) {
    batch.call('bar', [ 'A parameter', 'B parameter' ], success_cb1, error_cb1);
    batch.call('baz', { parameters: 'could be object' }, success_cb2, error_cb2);
  },
  function(all_result_array) { alert('All done.'); },
  function(error_data)       { alert('Error in batch response.'); }
);
```
Each result will be paired with it's own callback.  The all_done_callback given first to batch is
called when all other callbacks are done.


WebSocket
---------

If a websocket backend is given, it will be used if the browser supports it:

```Javascript
var foo = new $.JsonRpcClient({ ajaxUrl: '/backend/jsonrpc', socketUrl: 'ws://example.com/' });
foo.call('bar', [ 'param' ], success_cb, error_cb);
--> websocket message: {"jsonrpc":"2.0","method":"bar","params":["param"],"id":3}
```

The http fallback will be used when the browser is not WebSocket capable, but NOT when the
websocket fails to connect.


### WebSocket other message handler

If a non-response message comes in, it can be forwarded to an external handler by giving the
onmessage-option.


### Using an already alive websocket - getSocket option

If you already have a websocket active and want that to be used for the JSON-RPC requests, you can
use the getSocket option.  getSocket should point to a function with the following interface:
```
@param onmessage_cb  getSocket will be called with an onmessage_cb that must be bound to the
                     onmessage event of the returned socket.

@return websocket|null  The returned object should act like a WebSocket: it must have the
                        property readyState, with a value of less than or equal to 1.  If less
                        than 1, it must have an onopen-property that can be set, and that will
                        be called when the socket is ready.  Also, it must be have the function
                        'call', taking a string.
                        It could also return null if no socket is available.
```

The main purpose of this is to couple the client with a matching server, that can take requests
from the backend.


Tests
-----
Tests are written using the framework [Mocha](https://github.com/visionmedia/mocha), with the help
of [chai](https://github.com/chaijs/chai) for assertions and [sinon](http://sinonjs.org/) for spies,
mocks and fake servers.

To run the test you can either use [Karma](http://karma-runner.github.io) or 
[js-test-driver](https://code.google.com/p/js-test-driver/).

*Karma setup*
To run the tests with karma you need nodejs installed

To install Karma and it's dependencies (we use mocha,sinon and chai as test frameworks, and phantomjs to run the tests)
```bash
$ sudo npm install -g karma
$ cd jquery.jsonrpclient.js/
$ npm install
```

Start karma, it will automaticaly run the tests and then watch for changes and rerun on each change.
```bash
$ karma start test/unit.conf.js
```

*js-test-driver*
To run the test with js-test-driver you need java installed.

To install download the jar from here 
[google code](https://code.google.com/p/js-test-driver/downloads/list)

To run the tests from the command line, use the following commands:

    # Step 1 - Start jsTestDriver server on port 9000 on localhost
    java -jar /path/to/jsTestDriver.jar --port 9000

    # Step 2 - Browse to http://localhost:9000/capture with one or more browsers
    # Each browser you direct to that address will run the tests.

    # Step 3 - Run tests
    java -jar /path/to/jsTestDriver.jar --reset --config test/jsTestDriver.conf --tests all


JSON-RPC 2.0
------------

JSON-RPC 2.0 is a very simple protocol for remote procedure calls, agnostic of carrier (http,
websocket, tcp, whatever…).

[JSON-RPC 2.0 Specification](http://www.jsonrpc.org/specification)
